AD/LDAP and SAML updates. (#3213)
mattermost/docs: source/deployment/guest-accounts.rst

could also be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.

Guests can:

- Pin messages to channels
- Use slash commands (excluding restricted commands such as invite members, rename channels, change headers, etc)
- Favorite channels
- Mute channels
- Update their account settings

Guests cannot:

- Discover public channels
- Join open teams
- Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel
- Invite people

Enabling Guest Accounts
------------------------

1. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access**.
2. Set **Enable Guest Access** to ``True``.
3. (Optional) **Whitelist domains that are acceptable for Guest Access**.
 - This allows the System Administrators to set a list of approved guest domains. If you have team domain restrictions, you will also need to add your guest domain to **Team Settings > Allow only users with a specific email domain to join this team**.
4. (Optional) **Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for your Guests**.
 - If you are enforcing MFA for your users, you can optionally choose to enforce MFA for your guest users.

Guest Authentication
---------------------

> Guests can access the Mattermost server via email invitation, and be authenticated using AD/LDAP or SAML 2.0 with the **Guest Attribute** setting in the

Reviewer: In AD/LDAP it's called Guest Filter.  I don't know if we need to be that specific or not.

Author: Yep, we definitely should. Thanks!

Author: Let me know if the changes I made work better?

> Guests can access the Mattermost server via email invitation, and be authenticated using AD/LDAP or SAML 2.0 with the **Guest Attribute** setting in the

Author: ```suggestion
Guests can access the Mattermost server via email invitation, and be authenticated using AD/LDAP (**Guest Filter**) or SAML 2.0 (**Guest Attribute**).
```

Reviewer 2: This works better, but wondering if we should follow the format of **System Console > AD/LDAP > Guest Filter** and **System Console > SAML 2.0 > Guest Attribute**

> System Console. Before you proceed, ensure that the authentication method you wish to use is correctly configured on your server and enabled in Mattermost.

Author: ```suggestion
Before you proceed, ensure that the authentication method you wish to use is correctly configured on your server and enabled in Mattermost.
```

For configuration steps and technical documentation, see `Active Directory/LDAP Setup <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/sso-ldap.html>`_
and `SAML Single-Sign-On <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/sso-saml.html>`_.

> The **Guest Attribute** is a filter specific to guest access controlled by your organization's AD/LDAP or SAML system. Guests

Reviewer 2: lines 48-54 are specific to SAML with the use of "Guest Attribute".  Recommend moving to that section (line 76) and creating some similar content for LDAP specifically which would essentially replace the reference to "Guest Attribute" with "Guest Filter"

Author: Done and did some rearranging too.

Enabling Guest Accounts
------------------------

1. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access**.
2. Set **Enable Guest Access** to ``True``.
3. (Optional) **Whitelist domains that are acceptable for Guest Access**.
 - This allows the System Administrators to set a list of approved guest domains. If you have team domain restrictions, you will also need to add your guest domain to **Team Settings > Allow only users with a specific email domain to join this team**.
4. (Optional) **Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for your Guests**.
 - If you are enforcing MFA for your users, you can optionally choose to enforce MFA for your guest users.

Guest Authentication
---------------------

Guests can access the Mattermost server via email invitation, and be authenticated using AD/LDAP or SAML 2.0.
Before you proceed, ensure that the authentication method you wish to use is correctly configured on your server and enabled in Mattermost.
For configuration steps and technical documentation, see `Active Directory/LDAP Setup <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/sso-ldap.html>`_
and `SAML Single-Sign-On <https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/sso-saml.html>`_.

> Converting a member user to guest will not change the channels they are in; however they will be restricted from discovering additional channel and unable to DM/GM users outside of the channels they are in. They can be added to channels by Team and System Admins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Converting a member to a guest will not change the channels they are in; however they will be restricted from discovering additional channels and unable to direct message / group message users outside of the channels they are in. They can be added to channels by Team and System Admins.
```

> Converting a member user to a guest will not change the channels they are in; however they will be restricted from discovering additional channels and unable to direct message / group message users outside of the channels they are in. They can be added to channels by Team and System Admins.

Reviewer 2: > They can be added to channels by Team and System Admin. 

System Admins by default and only those with the "Invite Guest" Permission.  All other roles are defaulted to false for invite guests, so it really depends on their permissions schemes.

> Converting a member user to a guest will not change the channels they are in; however they will be restricted from discovering additional channels and unable to direct message / group message users outside of the channels they are in. They can be added to channels by Team and System Admins.

Author: ```suggestion
Converting a member user to a guest will not change the channels they are in; however they will be restricted from discovering additional channels and unable to direct message / group message users outside of the channels they are in. They can be added to channels by System Admins who have the correct permissions to invite guests. 
```

I'm not really sure with the wording here - let me know if you have any suggestions! :)

Reviewer 2: How about "....System admins and other roles that have the correct permissions to invite guests."

Author: That works for me, thanks!

4. Enter the guest’s email address.
5. Choose the channels the guest can join (excluding managed teams).
6. (Optional) Enter a custom message.

.. image:: ../images/Guest_Invite_Screen.png

Configuring AD/LDAP Authentication
----------------------------------

When enabled, the **Guest Filter** in Mattermost identifies external users whose AD/LDAP role is guest and who are invited to join 
your Mattermost server. These users will have the Guest role applied immediately upon first sign-in instead of the default member user role.
This eliminates having to manually assign the role in the System Console.

1. Enable Guest Access via **System Console > Guest Access (Beta)**.
2. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > AD/LDAP**.
3. Complete the **Guest Filter** field.
4. Choose **Save**.

If a Mattermost Guest user has the guest role removed in the AD/LDAP system, the synchronization process
will not automatically promote them to a member user role. This is done manually via **System Console > User Management**. If a
member user has the **Guest Attribute** added, the synchronization processes will automatically demote the member user to the guest role.

> 

Reviewer 2: Worth noting that a Guest will be taken to a generic screen letting them know they have no channels assigned until they have been added by a role with invite guest permissions.

Configuring SAML 2.0 Authentication
------------------------------------

When enabled, the **Guest Attribute** in Mattermost identifies external users whose SAML assertion is guest and who are invited to join
your Mattermost server. These users will have the Guest role applied immediately upon first sign-in instead of the default member user role.
This eliminates having to manually assign the role in the System Console.

If a Mattermost Guest user has the guest role removed in the SAML system, the synchronization processes will not automatically
promote them to a member user role. This is done manually via **System Console > User Management**.
If a member user has the **Guest Attribute** added, the synchronization processes will automatically demote the member user to the guest role.

1. Enable Guest Access via **System Console > Guest Access (Beta)**.
2. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > SAML 2.0**.
3. Complete the **Guest Attribute** field.
4. Choose **Save**.

> 

Reviewer 2: Same as above, worth noting that a Guest will be taken to a generic screen letting them know they have no channels assigned until they have been added by a role with invite guest permissions.

member user has the **Guest Attribute** added, the synchronization processes will automatically demote the member user to the guest role.

Configuring SAML 2.0 Authentication
------------------------------------

When enabled, the **Guest Attribute** in Mattermost identifies external users whose SAML assertion is guest and who are invited to join
your Mattermost server. These users will have the Guest role applied immediately upon first sign-in instead of the default member user role.
This eliminates having to manually assign the role in the System Console.

If a Mattermost Guest user has the guest role removed in the SAML system, the synchronization processes will not automatically
promote them to a member user role. This is done manually via **System Console > User Management**.
If a member user has the **Guest Attribute** added, the synchronization processes will automatically demote the member user to the guest role.

1. Enable Guest Access via **System Console > Guest Access (Beta)**.
2. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > SAML 2.0**.
3. Complete the **Guest Attribute** field.
4. Choose **Save**.

> Inviting Guests to the Mattermost Server via Email

Reviewer 2: I think this will be the most used method of inviting Guests.  I suggest moving this ahead of AD/LDAP & SAML.

Guest Identification
---------------------------

> Guess are identified with a guest badge. This badge is visible in various places on the interface and mobile apps such as on a guest’s profile and next to their name on user lists, including at-mentions and quick switcher lists. When guests are added to a channel, a system message informs other channel members that the added user is a guest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Guests are identified with a guest badge. This badge is visible in various places on the interface and mobile apps such as on a guest’s profile and next to their name on user lists, including at-mentions and quick switcher lists. When guests are added to a channel, a system message informs other channel members that the added user is a guest.
```

System Administrators can also promote a *Guest* to *Member* by updating their role in **System Console > User Management > Users**.

**Note:** You can filter the list in **System Console >  User Management > Users** to view all guests on the system.

Disabling Guest Accounts
------------------------

To disable the Guest Accounts feature, go to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access > Enable Guest Access** and select ``False``. In versions
prior to 5.18, current Guest Accounts will remain active until guest users are manually marked ``inactive`` in **System Console > User Management > Users**.

From 5.18, if you are using AD/LDAP and the Guest Access setting is disabled, the Guest Filter and existing guest users in System Console are deactivated.

> Additionally, no new guests can be invited and added using the filter as an authentication method. If a previous guest's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, no new guests can be invited and guests are added using the filter as an authentication method. If a previous guest's
```

credentials match the user filter (the only filter which is active when Guest Access is disabled), they will be reactivated and promoted to a member user
upon their next login.

Similarly, for SAML, when the Guest Access setting is disabled, the Guest Attribute and existing guest users in System Console are deactivated.

> Additionally, no new guests can be invited and added using the attribute as an authentication method. If a previous guest's

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, no new guests can be invited or added using the attribute as an authentication method. If a previous guest's
```

credentials match the user attribute (the only attribute which is active when Guest Access is disabled), they will be reactivated and promoted
to a member user upon their next login.

> You can disable individual guest accounts in **System Console > User Management**, via the **Manage Members** modal, or using the ``/kick`` or ``/remove`` commands. In version 5.18,

Reviewer 2: Does the ``kick`` and ``remove`` commands actually disable the account or remove them from teams/channesl?

Author: That's a good question. I don't actually know - it's in the current docs, I may just have moved this around a bit and didn't review it. The names of the commands makes me think the latter though.

Reviewer 2: Confirmed both commands remove a user from a channel.  No deactivation and their membership to the team is retained.

Author: Updated the docs to reflect this.

when a single Guest Account is disabled or the feature is disabled, the guests will be marked as `inactive`, be logged out of Mattermost, and all their sessions will be revoked.

Reinstating Guest Accounts
--------------------------

> When Guest Access is re-enabled for AD/LDAP the Guest Filter is reinstated. New users matching the Guest Filter will be authenticated as new guest users on login.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When Guest Access is re-enabled for AD/LDAP, the Guest Filter is reinstated. New users matching the Guest Filter will be authenticated as new guest users on login.
```

Adding Guests to Additional Channels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Users with the permissions to invite guests can use the **Invite Guests** modal to add a guest to additional channels.

A system message will be posted in the channels to let other members know a guest user has been added.

Removing Guests from Channels and Teams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Guests can be removed from a channel through the normal **Manage members** modals, or using the ``/kick`` or ``/remove`` commands. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Guests can be removed from a channel through the normal **Manage members** modals, by or using the ``/kick`` or ``/remove`` commands. 
```

prior to 5.18, current Guest Accounts will remain active until guest users are manually marked ``inactive`` in **System Console > User Management > Users**.

From 5.18, if you are using AD/LDAP and the Guest Access setting is disabled, the Guest Filter and existing guest users in System Console are deactivated.
Additionally, no new guests can be invited or added using the filter as an authentication method. If a previous guest's
credentials match the user filter (the only filter which is active when Guest Access is disabled), they will be reactivated and promoted to a member user
upon their next login.

Similarly, for SAML, when the Guest Access setting is disabled, the Guest Attribute and existing guest users in System Console are deactivated.
Additionally, no new guests can be invited or added using the attribute as an authentication method. If a previous guest's
credentials match the user attribute (the only attribute which is active when Guest Access is disabled), they will be reactivated and promoted
to a member user upon their next login.

> You can disable individual guest accounts in **System Console > User Management**, via the **Manage Members** modal. In version 5.18,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can disable individual guest accounts in **System Console > User Management** via the **Manage Members** modal. In version 5.18,
```
